.PU
.TH BOOM.CFG 5 local
.SH NAME
boom.cfg, glboom.cfg \- Configuration file for PrBoom v2.1.0 onwards
.SH USAGE
When a version of PrBoom is
run, it  searches for this configuration file to modify its default settings.
Every time PrBoom exits, it rewrites the configuration file, updating any
settings that have been changed using the in-game menus.
.PP
PrBoom expects the config file to be  \fB~/.prboom/boom.cfg\fP, or 
\fB~/.prboom/glboom.cfg\fP if compiled with GL support. Alternatively, it 
can be made to look elsewhere by using a command-line parameter:
.PP
.RB {prboom,glboom}
.RB [\| \-config 
.IR myconf \|]
.RB
.SH FORMAT
\fBboom.cfg\fP consists of a number of variables and values. Each line is of the following 
format:
.PP
[
{ 
{{#,;,[}
.I comment_text
,
.I variable 
{\fIdecimal_integer\fR, 0x\ \fIhex_integer\fR, "\fIstring_text\fR"}}]
.PP
Any line beginning with a non-alphabetic character is treated as a comment and 
ignored; for future compatibility you should start comments with a 
\fB#\fP, \fB;\fP or \fB[\fP. 
Note however that when PrBoom rewrites boom.cfg it does not preserve user added
comments.
.PP
Any line beginning with an alphabetic character is treated as a variable-value pair. 
The first word (sequence of non-whitespace characters) is the variable name, and 
everything after the following block of whitespace is taken to be the value 
assigned to the variable.
.PP
Variables not recognised by PrBoom, or which are given an invalid value or a value 
of an inappropriate type, are ignored. Warning messages are given where relevant.
.PP
The variables recognised by PrBoom are described per-section in the following 
sections. The sections are informal however; when PrBoom rewrites the config file 
it writes in section headings and puts variables into the relevant sections, but 
when reading these are ignored.

.SH MISC SETTINGS
.TP
.B compatibility_level
PrBoom is capable of behaving in a way compatible with earlier versions of Doom and 
Boom/PrBoom. The value given here selects the version to be compatible with when 
doing new games/demos. See \fBREADME.compat\fP for details.
.TP
.B realtic_clock_rate
Selects the speed that PrBoom runs at, as a percentage of normal game speed. 
Leave at \fB0\fP unless you want to experiment. Note that it is considered 
`cheating' to use this at any setting below \fB0\fP (or above?).
.TP
.B max_player_corpse
Sets the maximum number of player corpses to leave lying around. If this limit would 
be exceeded, an old corpse is removed. Useful for big/long Deathmatch games, where the 
sheer number of corpses could slow the game down.
.TP
.B flashing_hom
Flag indicating whether a flashing red background is drawn to highlight HOM
errors in levels (for level developers)
.TP
.B demo_insurance
Selects a method of protecting demos against `going out of sync' (where the 
player seems to lose control and behave madly, but in fact the players 
original instructions as stored in the demo have got out of sync with the 
game he was playing). \fB0\fP=No protection, \fB1\fP=Full protection, \fB2\fP=Only while 
recording demos. Safest when left set to \fB2\fP.
.TP
.B endoom_mode
This parameter specifies options controlling the display of the credits screen 
when Doom exits. Currently it is the sum of 3 options: add \fB1\fP for colours, \fB2\fP for 
non-ASCII characters to be displayed, and \fB4\fP for the last line to be skipped so the 
top line doesn't scroll off screen.
.TP
.B level_precache
If set, when loading a new level PrBoom precaches all the graphics the level
is likely to need in memory. This makes it much slower to load the level,
but reduces disk activity and slowdowns reading data during play. Most
systems are fast enough that precaching is not needed.

.SH FILES SETTINGS
.TP
.BR wadfile_1,\ \fBwadfile_2\fP
The names of 2 .wad files to be automatically loaded when PrBoom is started. 
A blank string means unused.

.TP
.BR dehfile_1,\ \fBdehfile_2\fP
The names of 2 patch files (.deh or .bex) to be automatically loaded when
PrBoom is started (empty string for none).

.SH GAME SETTINGS
.TP
.B default_skill
The default skill level when starting a new game.
.TP
.B weapon_recoil
Enables recoil from weapon fire.
.TP
.B doom_weapon_toggles
Flag indicating whether pressing 3 or 1 when that weapon is already selected
causes the selected shotgun or fist/chainsaw to be toggled, as in original
Doom. Some people prefer to use a number for each weapon alone.
.TP
.B player_bobbing
Enables player bobbing (view randomly moving up/down slightly as the player
runs).
.TP
.B monsters_remember
Makes monsters remember their previous enemy after killing their current
target.
.TP
.B monster_infighting
Whether monsters will fight each other when they injure each other
accidentally. 
.TP
.B monster_backing
Whether monsters without close combat weapons will back away from close combat
(unlike original Doom).
.TP
.B monster_avoid_hazards
Whether monsters avoid crushing ceilings.
.TP
.B monkeys
Whether monsters will climb steep stairs.
.TP
.B monster_friction
Whether monsters are affected by changed floor friction (they should be, but
weren't in Boom) 
.TP
.B help_friends
Whether monsters will help out injured monsters by aiding them against their
attacker. 
.TP
.B player_helpers
The number of helper dogs to spawn.
.TP
.B friend_distance
Distance within which friends will generally stay.
.TP
.B dog_jumping
Whether dogs will jump.
.TP
.B sts_always_red
PrBoom can make the colour of the text displays on the status bar reflect your
current status (\fBred\fP=low, \fByellow\fP=average, \fBgreen\fP=good, \fBblue\fP=super-charged).
This option if set selects the traditional Doom behavior of always-red status
bar display; set to \fB0\fP to allow the coloured display.
.TP
.B sts_pct_always_gray
See above, this makes just the percent signs always gray, instead of
changing colour.
.TP
.B sts_traditional_keys
Doom and PrBoom have two types of keys; PrBoom will normally display both keys 
of a given colour if you have both. This option, if enabled, instead makes
PrBoom only ever display one key of each colour, in the same way Doom did.
.TP
.B traditional_menu
Changes PrBoom's menu ordering to be the same as original Doom if enabled.
.TP
.B show_messages
When enabled, text messages are displayed in the top left corner of the screen
describing events in the game. Can be toggled in the game, this is just to
preserve the setting.
.TP
.B autorun
Makes the player always run, without having to hold down a run key. Can be
toggled in the game, this just preserves the setting.

.SH SOUND SETTINGS
.TP
.B sound_card
Selects whether sound effects are enabled (non-zero enables). For compatibility reasons 
with Boom, a range of values are accepted.
.TP
.B music_card
Selects whether in-game music is enabled (non-zero enables). For compatibility reasons 
a range of values are accepted.
.TP
.B pitched_sounds
If enabled by this variable, this enables `pitching' (making pitch adjustments to the 
playing sounds) for 16 bit sound cards.
.TP
.B samplerate
The samplerate for soundmixing and timidity. The sound quality is much better at
higher samplerates, but if you use timidity then higher samplerates need much
more CPU power. Useful values are \fB11025\fP, \fB22050\fP, \fB44100\fP and \fB48000\fP.
.TP
.B sfx_volume
Sound effects volume. This is best adjusted in the game.
.TP
.B music_volume
Music volume. This is best adjusted in the game. 
.TP
.B mus_pause_opt
Selects what PrBoom does to the music when a games is paused. \fB0\fP=stop the music, 
\fB1\fP=pause the music (stop it playing, but when resumed resume it at the same 
place - not implemented), \fB2\fP=continue playing.
.TP
.BR sounddev ,\  snd_channels ,\  soundsrv ,\  musicsrv
These variables are no longer used by PrBoom, but are kept for compatibility
reasons.

.SH COMPATIBILITY SETTINGS
These are settings that let you choose whether the normal game mechanics are
used, or whether various quirks, bugs and limitations of the original Doom game
are emulated.

.SH VIDEO SETTINGS
.TP 
.BR screen_width ,\  screen_height
For versions of PrBoom which support high-res, these specify the default 
screen or window size for PrBoom. These settings are ignored and preserved by 
versions of PrBoom which do not do high-res (they assume 320x200).
.TP
.B use_fullscreen
If set, this causes PrBoom to try to go full screen. Depending on your 
video driver and mode, this may include changing screen resolution to 
better match the game's screen resolution.
.TP
.B use_doublebuffer
Use double buffering to reduce tearing. On some machines this is even faster
than the normal method, but on others this makes problems, so you have to try
out which setting works best.
.TP
.B translucency
Causes PrBoom to display certain objects as translucent.
.TP
.B tran_filter_pct
Selects how translucent objects are when they are translucent. Play with this 
and see for yourself.
.TP
.B screenblocks
Selects a reduced screen size inside the PrBoom window (the player's view is 
surrounded by a border). Normally this is undesirable, but it can help speed 
up the game. Can be changed in the game with the +/- keys, this variable is
just to preserve that setting.
.TP
.B usegamma
Selects a level of gamma correction (extra screen brightening) to correct for a 
dark monitor or light surroundings. Can be selected in the game with the F11 
key, this config entry preserves that setting.

.SH OPENGL SETTINGS
.PP
If you are knowledgeable about OpenGL, you can tweak various aspects of the 
GL rendering engine.
.TP
.B gl_nearclip
The near clipping plane *100.
.TP
.B gl_colorbuffer_bits
The bit depth for the framebuffer. (\fB16\fP, \fB24\fP or \fB32\fP bits)
.TP
.B gl_depthbuffer_bits
The bit depth for the z-buffer. (\fB16\fP, \fB24\fP or \fB32\fP bits)
.TP
.B gl_tex_filter_string
A string, one of the following: \fBGL_NEAREST\fP or \fBGL_LINEAR\fP (no mipmapping), 
or one of 
\fBGL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_NEAREST\fP, \fBGL_NEAREST_MIPMAP_LINEAR\fP, 
\fBGL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_NEAREST\fP, \fBGL_LINEAR_MIPMAP_LINEAR\fP 
with mipmapping.
.TP
.B gl_tex_format_string
One of the following strings:
\fBGL_RGBA\fP - means format selected by driver (not so good),
\fBGL_RGBA2\fP - means 2 bits for each component (bad),
\fBGL_RGBA4\fP - means 4 bits for each component (like \fBGL_RGBA\fP on most cards), 
\fBGL_RGB5_A1\fP - means 5 bits for each color component 1 bit for the alpha channel (default),
\fBGL_RGBA8\fP - means 
8 bits for each component (best quality, but only a little bit better
than \fBGL_RGB5_A1\fP and slower on most cards)
.TP
.B gl_drawskys
If \fB0\fP, disables drawing skies, which may be needed with some problematic 
3D cards.
.TP
.B gl_sortsprites
Experimental option, possibly faster but less reliable. 

.SH MOUSE SETTINGS
.PP
This section specifies settings for using a mouse with PrBoom. There are
several settings that control button bindings (what action each button causes
in the game); these are easiest set from the in-game menus, these config
entries are to preserve the settings between games.
.TP
.B use_mouse
Enable or disable the use of a mouse with PrBoom.
.TP
.BR mouse_sensitivity_horiz ,\  mouse_sensitivity_vert
Sets the sensitivity of the mouse in PrBoom. Easier set from the in-game menus.

.SH KEY BINDINGS
.PP
These specify the keys that trigger various actions in PrBoom. The codes used 
for keys are internal to PrBoom, though many keys are represented by their 
ASCII codes. It is easiest to modify these via the in-game menus 
(OPTIONS->SETUP->KEY BINDINGS). These config file entries preserve the
settings from this menu between game sessions.

.SH JOYSTICK SETTINGS
.PP
There are the trigger variables here, which are calculated during joystick 
calibration (the values received from the kernel driver outside of which 
movement is caused in the game). Also there are the button-bindings, again 
best adjusted using the in-game menus.
.TP
.B use_joystick
This selects the number of the joystick to use, or \fB0\fP selects no joystick. You 
have to have the relevant device files (\fB/dev/js0\fP etc) and the kernel driver 
loaded.

.SH CHAT MACROS
.PP
These are pre-written text strings for quick transmission to players in a 
network game (consult your Doom documentation). Easiest set via the in-game 
menus (OPTIONS->SETUP->CHAT MACROS).

.SH AUTOMAP SETTINGS
.PP
These are settings related to the automap. These are easiest set from 
within the game.

.SH HEADS_UP DISPLAY SETTINGS
.PP
These are settings related to the heads-up display, that is messages received 
while playing and the heads-up display of your current status obtained by 
pressing + while the view is full-screen in PrBoom. See the Boom documentation 
for details. All controlled best from within the game.

.SH WEAPON PREFERENCES
.PP
Here are the settings from the Weapons menu in the game 
(OPTIONS->SETUP->WEAPONS). 

.SH ALSO SEE
.BR prboom(6), 
PrBoom's documentation (including the Boom and MBF documentation)
and your Doom documentation.

.SH AUTHOR
See the file \fBAUTHORS\fP included with PrBoom for a list of contributors to PrBoom.
This config file reference written by Colin Phipps (cph@moria.org.uk).

