.TH PRBOOM-PLUS 6 "2011-06-27"
.SH NAME
prboom-plus \- PrBoom+, a version of Doom for Unix, Linux and Windows systems
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B prboom-plus
[options] [values|files]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B PrBoom
is a version of the first-person shooter game Doom, originally released by iD software in 1993.
It is based on Boom, a version of Doom adapted by TeamTNT 
(http://www.teamtnt.com/) for Dos. PrBoom uses the SDL library,
meaning it can run on a variety of different systems, 
including Windows and Unix/X11.
.PP
.B PrBoom+
is a Doom source port developed from the original PrBoom project.
It adds uncapped framerate, variable gamespeed, re-record, walkcam, chasecam,
full mouselook, FOV and other features without loss of compatibility
with original Doom.
.SH GAME OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-complevel\  lvl
This sets the compatibility mode that PrBoom+ runs in. If you need to change
this, see \fBREADME.compat\fP.
.TP
\fB\-loadgame\fP { \fI0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7\fR }
Instructs PrBoom+ to load the specified saved game immediately.
.TP
\fB\-warp\fP { \fImap\fR | \fIepis\fR \fIlevel\fR }
Tells PrBoom+ to begin a new game immediately. For Doom 1 or The Ultimate Doom,
you must specify the \fIepis\fRode and \fIlevel\fR number to begin at
(\fIepis\fR is \fB1\fP for Knee-Deep in the Dead, \fB2\fP for Shores of Hell,
\fB3\fP for Inferno, \fB4\fP for Thy flesh Consumed; \fIlevel\fR is between
\fB1\fP and \fB9\fP). For Doom 2 or Final Doom, you must specify the
\fImap\fR to begin at, which is between \fB1\fP and \fB32\fP (\fB30\fP for
German Doom 2).
.TP
.BI \-skill\  n
Tells PrBoom+ to begin the game
at skill level \fIn\fR (\fB1\fP for I'm Too Young To Die; \fB2\fP for Hey, Not Too Rough;
\fB3\fP for Hurt Me Plenty; \fB4\fP for Ultra-Violent; \fB5\fP for Nightmare!).
.TP
.BI \-respawn
Tells PrBoom+ that monsters that die should respawn (come back to life)
after a while. Not for the inexperienced.
.TP
.BI \-fast
Tells PrBoom+ to make all the monsters move and
react faster. Not for the inexperienced.
.TP
.BI \-nomonsters
Tells PrBoom+ to include no monsters in the game.
.TP
.BI \-nocheats
Disable applying cheats from dehacked files.
.SH WAD OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-iwad\  iwadname
Specifies the location of the IWAD file, typically doom.wad or doom2.wad
(or doom2f.wad). This tells PrBoom+ where the main .wad file that came
with the version of Doom that you own is.
.TP
.BI \-file\  wad1\ \&...
Specifies a list of PWAD files to load in addition to the IWAD file. PWAD
files modify the existing Doom game, by adding levels or new sounds or
graphics. PWAD files are widely available for download; try
http://www.doomworld.com/idgames/ for starters.
.TP
.BI \-deh\  deh_file
Tells PrBoom+ to load the dehacked patch \fIdeh_file\fR.
.SH DEMO (LMP) OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-record\  demofile
Instructs PrBoom+ to begin recording a demo, to be stored in \fIdemofile.lmp\fR.
You should specify \fBgame options\fR to specify which level and skill
to record at.
.TP
.BI \-playdemo\  demofile
Play the recorded demo \fIdemofile.lmp\fR.
.TP
.BI \-timedemo\  demofile
Play the recorded demo \fIdemofile.lmp\fR, reporting information about
the length of the demo (in gametics) afterwards.
.TP
.BI \-viddump\  filename
Record a movie file, it requires external command-line encoding tools,
oggenc2 (ogg vorbis audio encoder), x264 (h264 video encoder) and
mkvmerge (mkv muxer).
It is meant to be used with \-timedemo, e.g.
"prboom-plus \-timedemo anydemo.lmp \-viddump filename.mkv".
.TP
.BI \-fastdemo\  demofile
Play the recorded demo \fIdemofile.lmp\fR as fast as possible. Useful for
benchmarking PrBoom+, as compared to other versions of Doom.
.TP
.BI \-ffmap\  num
Fast forward the demo (play at max speed) until reaching map \fInum\fR
(note that this takes just a number, not a map name, so so \fB-ffmap 7\fP
to go fast until MAP07 or ExM7).
.TP
.BI \-warp\  x
Warps directly to the start of map x of a recording without rendering any
of the play up to that point. Pressing Use (<Space> by default) during
skipping shows the current frame.
.TP
.BI \-avidemo\  fileprefix
Grabbing of the screenshots to frmXXXX.tga.
.TP
.BI \-skipsec\  x
Skip X secs during viewing of the demo.
.TP
.BI \-warp\  x \ -skipsec\  y
Will skip y seconds on level x.
.TP
.BI \-recordfromto\  n.lmp\ m
Play back the demo n.lmp, allowing the user to take over the controls at
a point of his choosing, and save the resulting demo as m.lmp.
.TP
.BI \-levelstat
Outputs a text-file called levelstat.txt containing level-by-level information
on times, kills, items and secrets.
.TP
.BI \-spechit\  xxx
Provides a spechits magic number, overriding the program's default value.
.TP
.BI \-nomonsters
For playback of \-nomonsters demos recorded with Doom.exe 1.2.
.TP
.BI \-respawn
For playback of \-respawn demos recorded with Doom.exe 1.2.
.TP
.BI \-auto
Enables the autoloading of wads according to the lmp file-name. See below
for information.
.SS DEMOS OLD VERSIONS COMPATIBILITY PARAMETERS
.TP
.BI \-emulate\  prboom_ver
For viewing old desynching PrBoom demos with all recording bugs from a
particular version emulated. For example, "\-emulate 2.2.6" would be used
to play back a desynching demo recorded with PrBoom 2.2.6. This would be
instead of using the various command-line options for each recording bug
(see below) from that version.
.TP
.BI \-force_monster_avoid_hazards
For viewing old desynching doom-compatible PrBoom demos recorded with
"monster_avoid_hazards 1" in config.
.TP
.BI \-force_remove_slime_trails
For viewing old desynching doom-compatible demos recorded with old versions
of PrBoom (< 2.4.6) or PrBoom+ (< 2.4.6.1) that are affected by the
"remove slime trails" incompatibility.
.TP
.BI \-reject_pad_with_ff
For viewing old desynching doom-compatible demos recorded with old versions
of PrBoom (including 2.2.5 and 2.2.6) that padded a short REJECT with ones
instead of zeroes.
.TP
.BI \-force_truncated_sector_specials
For emulation of old buggy behaviour whereby Boom's generalized effects
could work instead of failing in a compatibility mode in the case of a
bad action number.
.TP
.BI \-force_no_dropoff
For emulation of MBF_compatibility behaviour in PrBoom 2.2.2 - 2.4.7,
whereby things did not drop off ledges when they would have done in MBF.
.TP
.BI \-force_prboom_friction
For emulation of old buggy behaviour whereby Boom's friction and bobbing
code were not faithfully replicated.
.TP
.BI \-force_force_boom_brainawake
For emulation of Boom's behaviour with respect to the Monster Spawner,
which differed slightly from that of "vanilla" Doom.
.TP
.BI \-force_lxdoom_demo_compatibility
For emulation of all bugs in demo compatibility mode in lxdoom.
.TP
.BI \-boom_deh_parser
Forces the Boom DEH parser.
.TP
.BI \-setmem\  system
The desynch in fez1-924.lmp @ fez1.wad is gone, but you still need to add
"\-setmem dosbox" or "\-setmem dos71" command line parameter, because the
default "dos622" memory layout causes a desynch.
.SH MULTIPLAYER OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-net\fP \fIhostname\fR[:\fIport\fR]
Specifies that a TCP/IP network game is to be started. \fIhostname\fR is
the name of the machine on which the network game server is running
(\fBprboom-plus-game-server\fP). For more information about this, see
.BR prboom-plus-game-server (6)
and the \fBREADME\fP that came with PrBoom+. \fIport\fR is the
port number on the remote machine to which to connect; if not specified,
the default of \fB5030\fP (which is the default for
.BR prboom-plus-game-server (6)
) is assumed. 
The server will configure your PrBoom+ settings, so that all the players
have the same game settings (skill, map etc).
.PP
Also, the server may specify additional PWAD files to play with; if you
do not have the required .WAD file, PrBoom+ will ask the server for a download
path, and attempt to use 
.BR wget(1)
and if necessary 
.BR unzip(1)
to download and extract the required WAD.
.TP
.BI \-port\  portnum
Specifies the local port to use to communicate with the server in a netgame.
.TP
.BI \-deathmatch
No longer used. Tells PrBoom+ to begin a deathmatch game, but this is
overridden by the server's settings. Only works for single play (!).
.TP
.BI \-altdeath
Similar to \fB\-deathmatch\fP, but implies a different set of rules for
the deathmatch game. No longer used (specified by the server).
.TP
.BI \-timer\  mins
No longer used. Specifies that levels will end after \fImins\fR minutes
of play if the level is still being played, but is overridden by the server
in a netgame. Not really useful for single play.
.TP
.BI \-avg
Equivalent to \fB-timer 20\fP.
.TP
.BI \-solo-net
Used to run a single-player network game, without a network game server.
This enables network game items & options for an otherwise single-player
game; some demos are recorded like this.
.SH VIDEO OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-width\  w
Specifies the width of the PrBoom+ window, in pixels. Default is \fB320\fP,
the width must be greater than 320.
.TP
.BI \-height\  h
Specifies the height of the PrBoom+ window, in pixels. Default is \fB200\fP,
the height must be greater than 200.
.TP
.BI \-viewangle\  n
Causes the player view to be rotated by a given offset (specified in
45degree increments, in the range 0..7) from the way the player is facing.
.TP
.BI \-vidmode\  gl
Use the OpenGL video mode. The default is to use the software video mode.
.TP
.BI \-fullscreen,\ \-nofullscreen
These options toggle fullscreen mode. The default is fullscreen.
.TP
.BI \-window,\ \-nowindow
This pair of options also toggle fullscreen mode. They only take effect
for this PrBoom+ session and do not alter your configuration file.
.TP
.BI \-noaccel
For PrBoom+, this prevents it using the MITShm server extension for passing
the screen data to the X server. This option may be required if the X server
is not local. For lsdoom, this tells lsdoom not to use the accelerated
graphics functions that SVGALib provides even when they are supported for
your video card (normally this is autodetected).
.TP
.BR \-1 ,\  \-2 ,\  \-3
Specifies the scale factor by which to enlarge the window. The default,
\fB-1\fP, displays the normal 320x200 pixel Doom screen (or whatever size
is specified by the \fB-width\fP and \fB-height\fP parameters or in the
config file for PrBoom+).  If this window is too small, try using \fB-2\fP
or \fB-3\fP to enlarge the window.
.TP
.BI \-nodraw
Suppress all graphical display. Only for debugging & demo testing.
.TP
.BI \-aspect\  NxM
For using a different aspect ratio; e.g. \-aspect 5x4, \-aspect 8x5 or \-aspect 2x1.
.TP
.BI \-videodriver\  name
For setting up the videodriver name that SDL will use (See SDL documentation).
"\-videodriver default" can be used to force SDL behaviour by default.
.TP
.BI \-resetgamma
Restores the original gamma after a crash.
.TP
.BI \-geom\  NxM
Basic syntax, for temporarily using a particular resolution without saving
this in the cfg; e.g. \-geom 1280x1024.
.TP
.BI \-geom\  WidthxHeight[w|f]
Advanced syntax, w - windowed, f - fullscreen. Examples: \-geom 320x200f,
\-geom 640x480w.
.SH I/O OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-nosound
Disables all sound effects and in-game music. This prevents the sound server 
loading, which lets the game run a little faster. 
.TP
.BI \-nosfx
Disables sound effects during the game. This does not stop the sound server 
loading, however, so for best performance use \-nosound.
.TP
.BI \-nomusic
Disables playing of music in the game.
.TP
.BI \-nojoy
Disables joystick support.
.TP
.BI \-nomouse
Prevents the mouse being grabbed by the PrBoom+ window.
.TP
.BI \-shorttics
Forces the same mouse behaviour as when recording (i.e. the converse of
"\-longtics").
.SH CONFIGURATION
.TP
.BI \-config\  myconf
Loads an alternative configuration file, named \fImyconf\fR. The default is 
.BR prboom-plus.cfg (5),
taken from the same directory as PrBoom+ was run from.
.TP
.BI \-save\  savedir
Causes PrBoom+ to save games in the directory specified by \fIsavedir\fR
instead of \fB~/.prboom-plus/\fP.
.TP
.BI \-shotdir\  shotdir
Causes PrBoom+ to save screenshots in \fIshotdir\fR instead of the current
directory.
.SH DEBUGGING/PROFILING OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-devparm
Development mode. Mostly redundant these days, but it does force non-lazy
generation of texture lookups which can be useful for level authors debugging
PWADs.
.TP
.BI \-debugfile\  debug_file
Causes some debugging information, mainly network info, to be
written to the named file as PrBoom+ runs.
.TP
.BI \-nodrawers
Causes no rendering to be done. The only conceivable use of this is (a)
a multiplayer server (b) to test the speed of the other routines in the
program, when combined with \fB\-timedemo\fP.
.TP
.BI \-noblit
Causes no copying to the screen from the rendering buffer to be performed.
The only conceivable use of this is (a) a multiplayer server (b) to test
the speed of the other routines in the program, when combined with \fB\-timedemo\fP.
.TP
.BI \-bexout\  bexdbg
Causes diagnostics related to bex and dehacked file processing to be written 
to the names file.
.TP
.BI \-blockmap
Use if PrBoom-Plus reports a buggy blockmap.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR prboom-plus.cfg (5),
.BR prboom-plus-game-server (6)
.PP
For more information, see the \fBREADME\fP that came with PrBoom+, the Boom
documentation, and your original Doom documentation.
.PP
Doom is a registered trademark of id software (http://www.idsoftware.com/).
.SH AUTHORS
See the file \fBAUTHORS\fP included with the PrBoom+ distribution.
